In preparation for class, we all read a short section from “Dracula’s Guest” by Bram Stoker. In class, we analyzed the reading to place it into context of Stoker’s other work. “Dracula’s Guest” is most likely a prequel to “Dracula” and serves to give context for the inciting action of the story. 

After a short discussion, our attention turned to the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI). TEI’s goal is to create a standard convention for encoding texts in a digital format. To begin, each member of the class received a short section from our reading—about 2 paragraphs each—to mark in a Google Doc. Each section had to be marked up on paper so that it could be more easily translated into markdown later.

Once I was done with organizing my section, I used OxygenXML Editor to carefully encode the text. I started coding HTML in 2014, so using TEI’s implementation of XML was very familiar to me. Opening and closing tags was a lot easier than I was expecting. Oxygen did a good job of taking care of that for me. I think the most frustrating part was using self-closing tags because the editor would struggle to understand what was going on for a second.

In the end, I think this project was very useful to understand what the nitty-gritty of being a digital humanist that focuses on texts. Having a consistent format for writing and displaying text in the digital space is important for information to remain as its author intended. It also helps to create and maintain a brand.  Coding is also a crucial part of digital literacy. As the world moves more online, it is important to comprehend how to read code. Even something as simple as XML which uses tags around text can be invaluable one day.
